Software Development vs Web Development
Software development is the term used for the process of creating software or applications in computer coded and specific programming language. It is a process of developing software by writing maintainable code. Software development means creating, planning, reusing, research and development, making things simple, broader usage, etc. Web development is the term used for the process of creating web applications or websites that needs to get hosted. Web development means developing a complex web-based application as well as the development of simple and single-page applications. Web development mainly is done as Client-side scripting, Server-side scripting, and database scripting.
Software development and Web development both are used for developing applications. Software development means developing windows based application and Web development means developing web-based applications. Software development and Web development has used a standard set of rules for software and web designing to create applications more secure, reliable and with better performance.
Web development vs Software development is using different methodologies to check or keep the track of the progress of development of software and web application. In software development, the main focus is on logic written for the screen rather than UI, data loading to controls. In web development, front-end development is the topmost priority as to make the web application more attractive or interesting.
Web development can be considered as lightweight programming as it gives the ready result even with the small change. It is a process of creating a full fledge or featured application rather than just web designing only. Web applications can be used in mobile browsers or computer browser. Some web apps are similar to software only like executing logic on button click or on an event occurring by displaying the feasible results.
Web development is more in demand in a market with continuously increasing use of Internet and availability of resources at every place through mobile and personal laptops. With help of mobile, we can easily access the Internet and use the web applications anywhere in the world through Internet connectivity. In our daily routine, we are using social media sites, e-commerce sites for selling and buying products, traveling sites to book tickets; which are having user-friendly interfaces, security features like validating login and reliability.
